README.md, before:

# SE Workshop Tool
Tool which allows batch upload and download of mods for Space Engineers.

# Introduction
This tools allows you to script mod uploads to the workshop.
It takes various command-line options, which can be displayed by running **SEWorkshopTool.exe** without arguments.

Please note, this is a command-line application only. A GUI may be considered in the future, however at this time it is not planned.

# Requirements
1. A copy of Space Engineers on Steam
2. Visual Studio 2013 Update 4 or higher

# Build Steps
1. Open **SEWorkshopTool.sln**
2. Change the references for *CommandLine.dll*, *Sandbox.Game.dll*, *SpaceEngineers.Game.dll*, *Vrage.dll*, *VRage.Game.dll*, *VRage.Library.dll*, and *VRage.Scripting.dll* to point to the location where Space Engineers is installed, typically *&lt;SteamApps&gt;\Common\SpaceEngineers\Bin64*
3. Select **Release**, **Any CPU**, and build the solution.
4. Copy the following files into the Space Engineers *Bin64* directory above: *SEWorkshopTool.exe*, and *SEWorkshopTool.exe.config*.
5. Open a command prompt in the Space Engineers *Bin64* directory as used above.
6. Run the tool with the appropriate options.

# Examples

## Uploading
To upload a mod, execute the following:  
`SEWorkshopTool --upload --mods %appdata%\SpaceEngineers\Mods\FTL`

To upload multiple mods at the same time, just append more directories to the command:  
`SEWorkshopTool --upload --mods %appdata%\SpaceEngineers\Mods\FTL %appdata%\SpaceEngineers\Mods\Stargate`

Relative paths are allowed and, if used, the default data path for that mod type will be prepended:  
`SEWorkshopTool --upload --mods FTL Stargate --script Off-Roading`

For additional checks, you can also compile the mods with the **--compile** argument, to verify they are valid before uploading:  
`SEWorkshopTool --upload --compile --mods FTL %appdata%\SpaceEngineers\Mods\Stargate`

If you just prefer to test the compilation, without uploading to the workshop, you can omit **--upload** argument:  
`SEWorkshopTool --compile --mods FTL %appdata%\SpaceEngineers\Mods\Stargate`

If you prefer to test publishing, but not actually publish, you can use the **--dry-run** argument:  
`SEWorkshopTool --upload --dry-run --compile --mods FTL %appdata%\SpaceEngineers\Mods\Stargate`

To upload a mod tagged for the development branch, use the **--dev** argument (can be combined with above options):  
`SEWorkshopTool --dev --upload --mods FTL`

If the mod directory or name contains spaces, surround the path with double-quotes:  
`SEWorkshopTool --dev --upload --mods "%appdata%\SpaceEngineers\Mods\Mod Folder" "My Fabulous Mod"`

To upload a new mod with hidden visibility (only works for new mods):  
`SEWorkshopTool --upload --mods "Mod Folder" --visibility Private`

You can pass custom file extensions to ignore during the upload with the **--exclude** argument (with or without a leading dot):  
`SEWorkshopTool --upload --mods FTL --exclude .fbx .pdb xml`

You can also specify the mod categories with the **--tags** argument:  
`SEWorkshopTool --upload --mods FTL --tags block script`

Note with Tags:
If you do *not* specify any tags, then the existing tags on the workshop will be preserved (for updating mods). However if you specify *any* tags, then *all* tags will be replaced with what was entered.

For example: If a workshop mod contains the *Block* and *Script* categories, and you pass only **--tags block**, then *Script* will be removed.

## Downloading
To download a set of mods, use the **--download** argument. Then supply a list of workshop IDs with the **--mods** argument.  
`SEWorkshopTool --download --mods 754173702 681276386`

To download a collection or collections, use the **--download** argument. Then supply a list of workshop IDs with the **--collections** argument.  
`SEWorkshopTool --download --collections 814381863`

If desired, you can also automatically extract the mods to your local *%appdata%\SpaceEngineers\Mods* directory with the **--extract** argument:  
`SEWorkshopTool --extract --download --mods 754173702 681276386`

They will be extracted to their appropriate directory in the format: *[\_SEWT\_] &lt;Mod Title&gt; (&lt;WorkshopId&gt;)*

## Other Operations
### New in 0.7.8:
You can now set workshop item descriptions and changelogs.
The description and changelog can both be set by specifying a filename containing the text you want to use.

To set the entire workshop description content:
`SEWorkshopTool --upload --mods FTL --description filename_of_workshop_description.txt`

Setting the changelog for this *specific* operation is similiar:
`SEWorkshopTool --upload --mods FTL --message filename_of_change_notes.txt`

If your changelog is short, you can specify the entire message as the argument, instead of a filename:
`SEWorkshopTool --upload --mods FTL --message "Made a fix for the latest SE version."`

You can, of course, specify both at once.

Notes:
The changelog option first checks if the supplied argument is an existing file. If it is, it reads the contents. If not, it simply uses the argument as-is as the changelog note.
Be sure to check the output for the message that will be sent to Steam (the log will show a shortened version, but the entire content will be sent to steam).
It's important to surround the message with double-quotes.

Steam limits the workshop description to 8k bytes. Note, for unicode, that means 4k characters.

### New in 0.7.5:
Support for .gitignore style ignore list (but simpler). This file is .wtignore, and can be placed either in your mod directory, or in the parent Mods\ directory, ie. *%appdata%\SpaceEngineers\Mods*.
An example file is included with the release zip, just copy it to one of the directories above and edit to taste. Further documentation is in the file itself.

### New in 0.7.4:
Mod.io support, for uploading or downloading mods used by the XBox version.

**THIS IS EXPERIMENTAL AND BUGGY**

It can only upload and download mods. It cannot update tags. Thumbnail editing is untested.
Authentication is required, this is done via email. SEWT does not ask for your account password!
If you do not want to use SEWT for authentication, you might be able to manually create an OAuth2 token from the mod.io website, however this is untested.
If so, add the following to SEWorkshopTool.exe.config, just below :

```
  <appSettings>
    <add key="auth-login" value="your mod.io email address" />
    <add key="auth-token" value="your mod.io token here" />
    <add key="auth-expires" value="unix timestamp expiration" />
  </appSettings>
```
To switch to mod.io, use the --modio option, in combination with all the other commands.
For example, to upload a large ship blueprint named "My First Ship":
`SEWorkshopTool.exe --modio --upload --blueprints "My First Ship" --tags ship,large_grid`

### New in 0.7.1:
You can add other workshop items as a requirement for your items now.
This operates similar to the DLC requirement feature.

To set a mod as requiring another mod:
`SEWorkshopTool --mods FTL --dependencies 1992410560`

Notice that the workshop id *must* be used here. You cannot specify local mods.

### New in 0.6.1:
You can add DLC as a requirement for workshop items.

To see the list of DLC:
`SEWorkshopTool.exe --listdlc`

To set a mod as requiring the Style Pack DLC:
`SEWorkshopTool --mods FTL --dlc StylePack`
or
`SEWorkshopTool --mods FTL --dlc 1084680`

Notice that either the string name, or the AppID of the DLC can be specified.

### New in 0.6.0:
You can delete your Steam cloud, both the entire cloud, and individual files.
To see the contents (does **NOT** delete):
`SEWorkshopTool --clearsteamcloud`

To delete all contents (**CANNOT** be undone):
`SEWorkshopTool --clearsteamcloud --force`

To forget an individual file on the cloud, but keep the file locally (use filename queried above):
`SEWorkshopTool --clearsteamcloud --deletecloudfile "filename"`

To delete an individual file on the cloud AND locally (use filename queried above):
`SEWorkshopTool --clearsteamcloud --deletecloudfile "filename" --force`

Notice the above commands do *not* contain **--upload** or **--download**.

### New in 0.5.4:
Now you can update the the preview image (thumb.png) separately, without reuploading the entire mod.
This also works for updating tags as well.
To update the thumbnail (any image steam supports, can be in *any* location):
`SEWorkshopTool --mods FTL --thumb "path\to\filename"`

To update the tags:
`SEWorkshopTool --mods FTL --tags other`

Commit message:

Implement powershell pre-build script to automatically create a link to the SE and ME game binaries. This is an alternative implementation for PR #34. If the game is installed, it will be automatically detected.
A Bin64 junction will be created in either SEWorkshopTool\ or MEWorkshopTool\, depending on the project.
Project references were changed to reference this new location.

There should be no manual steps required to fix the projects to build now.

Updated README.md with new build steps.

README.md, after:

# SE Workshop Tool
Tool which allows batch upload and download of mods for Space Engineers.

# Introduction
This tools allows you to script mod uploads to the workshop.
It takes various command-line options, which can be displayed by running **SEWorkshopTool.exe** without arguments.

Please note, this is a command-line application only. A GUI may be considered in the future, however at this time it is not planned.

# Requirements
1. A copy of Space Engineers (or Medieval) on Steam
2. Visual Studio 2017 or higher (JetBrains Rider is reported as working).

# Build Steps
1. Open **SEWorkshopTool.sln**
2. If Steam and Space Engineers (or Medieval) are installed, they should be detected during the build and the project references to the game DLLs should automatically update. If not, you will need to manually create the junction. If there is a problem, the error message in the build output will explain how to create that manually.
3. Select **Release**, **Any CPU**, and build the solution.
4. Copy the following files into the Space Engineers *Bin64* directory above: *SEWorkshopTool.exe*, *SEWorkshopTool.exe.config*, *CommandLine.dll*, and *steam_appid.txt*. Alternatively, just grab *SEWorkshopTool-latest.zip* in the output folder, and extract that to the Bin64 directory.
5. Open a command prompt in the Space Engineers *Bin64* directory as used above.
6. Run the tool with the appropriate options.

# Examples

## Uploading
To upload a mod, execute the following:  
`SEWorkshopTool --upload --mods %appdata%\SpaceEngineers\Mods\FTL`

To upload multiple mods at the same time, just append more directories to the command:  
`SEWorkshopTool --upload --mods %appdata%\SpaceEngineers\Mods\FTL %appdata%\SpaceEngineers\Mods\Stargate`

Relative paths are allowed and, if used, the default data path for that mod type will be prepended:  
`SEWorkshopTool --upload --mods FTL Stargate --script Off-Roading`

For additional checks, you can also compile the mods with the **--compile** argument, to verify they are valid before uploading:  
`SEWorkshopTool --upload --compile --mods FTL %appdata%\SpaceEngineers\Mods\Stargate`

If you just prefer to test the compilation, without uploading to the workshop, you can omit **--upload** argument:  
`SEWorkshopTool --compile --mods FTL %appdata%\SpaceEngineers\Mods\Stargate`

If you prefer to test publishing, but not actually publish, you can use the **--dry-run** argument:  
`SEWorkshopTool --upload --dry-run --compile --mods FTL %appdata%\SpaceEngineers\Mods\Stargate`

To upload a mod tagged for the development branch, use the **--dev** argument (can be combined with above options):  
`SEWorkshopTool --dev --upload --mods FTL`

If the mod directory or name contains spaces, surround the path with double-quotes:  
`SEWorkshopTool --dev --upload --mods "%appdata%\SpaceEngineers\Mods\Mod Folder" "My Fabulous Mod"`

To upload a new mod with hidden visibility (only works for new mods):  
`SEWorkshopTool --upload --mods "Mod Folder" --visibility Private`

You can pass custom file extensions to ignore during the upload with the **--exclude** argument (with or without a leading dot):  
`SEWorkshopTool --upload --mods FTL --exclude .fbx .pdb xml`

You can also specify the mod categories with the **--tags** argument:  
`SEWorkshopTool --upload --mods FTL --tags block script`

Note with Tags:
If you do *not* specify any tags, then the existing tags on the workshop will be preserved (for updating mods). However if you specify *any* tags, then *all* tags will be replaced with what was entered.

For example: If a workshop mod contains the *Block* and *Script* categories, and you pass only **--tags block**, then *Script* will be removed.

## Downloading
To download a set of mods, use the **--download** argument. Then supply a list of workshop IDs with the **--mods** argument.  
`SEWorkshopTool --download --mods 754173702 681276386`

To download a collection or collections, use the **--download** argument. Then supply a list of workshop IDs with the **--collections** argument.  
`SEWorkshopTool --download --collections 814381863`

If desired, you can also automatically extract the mods to your local *%appdata%\SpaceEngineers\Mods* directory with the **--extract** argument:  
`SEWorkshopTool --extract --download --mods 754173702 681276386`

They will be extracted to their appropriate directory in the format: *[\_SEWT\_] &lt;Mod Title&gt; (&lt;WorkshopId&gt;)*

## Other Operations
### New in 0.7.8:
You can now set workshop item descriptions and changelogs.
The description and changelog can both be set by specifying a filename containing the text you want to use.

To set the entire workshop description content:
`SEWorkshopTool --upload --mods FTL --description filename_of_workshop_description.txt`

Setting the changelog for this *specific* operation is similiar:
`SEWorkshopTool --upload --mods FTL --message filename_of_change_notes.txt`

If your changelog is short, you can specify the entire message as the argument, instead of a filename:
`SEWorkshopTool --upload --mods FTL --message "Made a fix for the latest SE version."`

You can, of course, specify both at once.

Notes:
The changelog option first checks if the supplied argument is an existing file. If it is, it reads the contents. If not, it simply uses the argument as-is as the changelog note.
Be sure to check the output for the message that will be sent to Steam (the log will show a shortened version, but the entire content will be sent to steam).
It's important to surround the message with double-quotes.

Steam limits the workshop description to 8k bytes. Note, for unicode, that means 4k characters.

### New in 0.7.5:
Support for .gitignore style ignore list (but simpler). This file is .wtignore, and can be placed either in your mod directory, or in the parent Mods\ directory, ie. *%appdata%\SpaceEngineers\Mods*.
An example file is included with the release zip, just copy it to one of the directories above and edit to taste. Further documentation is in the file itself.

### New in 0.7.4:
Mod.io support, for uploading or downloading mods used by the XBox version.

**THIS IS EXPERIMENTAL AND BUGGY**

It can only upload and download mods. It cannot update tags. Thumbnail editing is untested.
Authentication is required, this is done via email. SEWT does not ask for your account password!
If you do not want to use SEWT for authentication, you might be able to manually create an OAuth2 token from the mod.io website, however this is untested.
If so, add the following to SEWorkshopTool.exe.config, just below :

```
  <appSettings>
    <add key="auth-login" value="your mod.io email address" />
    <add key="auth-token" value="your mod.io token here" />
    <add key="auth-expires" value="unix timestamp expiration" />
  </appSettings>
```
To switch to mod.io, use the --modio option, in combination with all the other commands.
For example, to upload a large ship blueprint named "My First Ship":
`SEWorkshopTool.exe --modio --upload --blueprints "My First Ship" --tags ship,large_grid`

### New in 0.7.1:
You can add other workshop items as a requirement for your items now.
This operates similar to the DLC requirement feature.

To set a mod as requiring another mod:
`SEWorkshopTool --mods FTL --dependencies 1992410560`

Notice that the workshop id *must* be used here. You cannot specify local mods.

### New in 0.6.1:
You can add DLC as a requirement for workshop items.

To see the list of DLC:
`SEWorkshopTool.exe --listdlc`

To set a mod as requiring the Style Pack DLC:
`SEWorkshopTool --mods FTL --dlc StylePack`
or
`SEWorkshopTool --mods FTL --dlc 1084680`

Notice that either the string name, or the AppID of the DLC can be specified.

### New in 0.6.0:
You can delete your Steam cloud, both the entire cloud, and individual files.
To see the contents (does **NOT** delete):
`SEWorkshopTool --clearsteamcloud`

To delete all contents (**CANNOT** be undone):
`SEWorkshopTool --clearsteamcloud --force`

To forget an individual file on the cloud, but keep the file locally (use filename queried above):
`SEWorkshopTool --clearsteamcloud --deletecloudfile "filename"`

To delete an individual file on the cloud AND locally (use filename queried above):
`SEWorkshopTool --clearsteamcloud --deletecloudfile "filename" --force`

Notice the above commands do *not* contain **--upload** or **--download**.

### New in 0.5.4:
Now you can update the the preview image (thumb.png) separately, without reuploading the entire mod.
This also works for updating tags as well.
To update the thumbnail (any image steam supports, can be in *any* location):
`SEWorkshopTool --mods FTL --thumb "path\to\filename"`

To update the tags:
`SEWorkshopTool --mods FTL --tags other`
